---
layout: article
title: Adventures in DIY EEG Land
tags: [Neuroscience]
excerpt: "What I learned from a summer of trying to read my own thoughts for
under $100"
image:
  feature: joe_eeg_feature.jpg
  teaser:  joe_eeg_teaser.png
---

I always thought that mind reading was pretty amazing, and volunteered for
all sorts of campus psych studies involving EEG and fMRI. That's how I got
this lovely picture of my brain, as well as the same picture in 3D.  At the beginning of the summer, though, I learned that was (no pun) mind-blowing.  It's possible to mind-read for less than $20.  So began my journey into DIY EEG tech.  

Our thoughts stir a whirlwind of electrical activity along our scalps.  Engagement, meditation, sleep, and even the subjects of our thoughts create faint but real electrical patterns that we can measure non-intrusively by placing electrodes on our scalps.  Electroencephalographs or EEGs do just this, creating a timeseries of voltage levels distributed in space along the head.  Sometimes, our thoughts manifest themselves as distinct frequencies in these voltages. For example (DATA HERE).  Other times, the mappings between EEG and our thoughts are too complicated for us to discern simply by frequency analysis, and we must apply machine learning techniques to map EEG data to states of mind.  The biggest problem neuroscientists face in interpreting EEG data is not hwo to interpret it, though, but how to tease brain data out from noisy signals.  In the past, it would have been impossible for a hobbyist to make a quality EEG simply because a DIY EEG would be cursed with a terrible signal-to-noise ratio, from noise in 60Hz frequencies of power lines (in the US), from eyeblink movements and facial expressions.  Today, this is still the primary problem a hobbyist faces, but hardware and software have come together to improve SNR's.  Since June, I've investigated in depth EEG options availible to hobbyists, and this is my DIY EEG review.

- DIY EEG's
  - Single Channel
  - EEGMouse
  - OpenBCI
  - Electrodes
    - Canada electrodes + 10/20 Paste vs Flour
    - Pennies
    - Sticky
    - Holster?

- Out of the Box EEG's
  - Mindwave, etc
  - Emotiv
